[TUAN]
I'm sorry,
Miach.
[UWE]
Huh?
[TUAREG LEADER] As-Salaam
alaykum, Tribe of Medicine.
Wa-Alaykum Salaam,
warrior of the Tuareg.
What you say is our
tribe's Arabic name.
Do you know what it means?
[TUAN]
I'm afraid I don't.
[TUAREG LEADER] "Tuareg" means
"The people abandoned by God."
Only enemies and
outsiders call us this.
[TUAN]
A God that turns a blind eye
and leaves you alone,
doesn't sound all that bad.
[TUAREG LEADER]
Hm.
Do you have so little
love for your own gods?
[TUAN]
The "Medicine gods".
They're always watching.
And most of the time,
too closely for my taste.
[TUAN]
They can't see us in the desert.
And yet, that doesn't
mean they're not here.
[TUAN]
I'm surprised you wanted
the immunization program
in these memorycels.
I had heard your tribe
was opposed to WatchMe.
We partake of your imperialist
software in moderation.
If we do not, your gods
will collect our health data,
and use it to control us in
the name of "preserving life."
That is why we update
with hardware only.
It allows us to be vaccinated,
while staying off
the main server.
[TUAN] You almost
make this backroom deal
sound like a fine
act of charity.
"All things in moderation,"
is what you people say, yes?
--[UWE chuckles]
--[SOLDIER B] Heh-heh.
[SOLDIER C]
Hm? Heh.
However, you no longer
practice what you preach.
Instead, you simply impose
your way of life on others.
[SOLDIERS grunt]
We're not here to
"impose" anything.
We're on no one's side.
Not the government of
Niger, or the Tuareg.
Our only orders are to
monitor the cease-fire.
I just don't follow them.
So, why stay?
Come live with our tribe.
We have great respect
for women like you.
[TUAN] You're kind, but I
made the choice to come here.
I can't leave.
I'm just not proud
of the reason.
[TUAN]
I am a coward.
[TUAN] If I had known
then, what I know now,
I would have realized
I wasn't strong enough.
[TUAN] I wasn't brave enough to
follow her to the other side.
You and me.
Let's do it, Tuan.
Die with me.
[TUAN]
I'm sorry, Miach.
Nigerienne military
aircraft on approach!
Damn it! It's a WarBird!
And it looks fully armed!
Go! Head back to the desert!
[UWE]
Hurry, Tuan! We gotta go!
[TUAREG LEADER]
Listen to him.
There will be serious
trouble if the W.H.O.
finds out one of
its elite inspectors
was trading for contraband
with the likes of us.
For now, I bid you goodbye.
But, come find us if you
ever change your mind.
--Hup!
--[TUAN] Thanks, I will.
[grunts]
It's coming in too fast!
No way we'll shake it!
[grunts]
[SOLDIER C, B grunt]
[UWE grunts]
Even if we could lose them,
they already know we were here,
and no doubt they got
the pictures to prove it!
Ja, But they won't send
'em till they're back
in their own airspace.
They're too vulnerable
in the Recon Zone.
Then let's hurry up
and take care of them
before they can rat us out!
Uwe! Take the wheel!
Oh shit! We're gonna crash!
C'mon!
[TUAN] Try to keep her steady.
I gotta time this just right!
--[UWE] 5,700 meters!
--[COMPUTER beeping]
3,000 meters!
2,500!
2,000!
Tuan!
So much for our break
from the battlefield.
You shoulda left us alone!
[UWE grunts]
[SOLDIER B huffs]
[sighs]
[TUAN]
I cooked. You clean.
[UWE grunts]
[sighs]
[TUAN] Thanks to my
high and mighty job
as a Helix Inspector,
I've found myself
traipsing across
just about every war zone
on the face of the planet.
[TUAN]
I fled Japan.
Fled from a society
that felt like a prison.
Fled from a culture
that was slowly killing
its people with kindness.
You and me.
Let's do it, Tuan. Die with me!
[MIACH] We're both cut from
the same cloth, Tuan Kirie.
We're two of a kind.
[TUAN]
I fled from her,
from my memories of Miach Mihie.
[TUAN gasps]
Miach!
[CIAN gasps]
How about all three of us do it?
We'll make a declaration right
here, now, to never grow up.
[TUAN yelps]
[MIACH]
Our bodies, our tits...
...our pussies, our wombs.
These are ours.
They belong to us.
We'll shout it from the
rooftops, without saying a word.
[gasps]
Everyone here gets WatchMe
installed at birth,
but no one questions it.
They're so grateful
for medical salvation,
they don't see the true cost.
It's like a timer counting
down until we become adults
and it can activate.
And once it starts,
we're prisoners.
Our bodies are
no longer our own.
They won't allow us
to get fat or die.
The Admedistration will even
control how big our boobs get.
Do you honestly think
you could live like that?
[gasps]
[TUAN grunts]
Stop it, Miach! That hurts!
Doesn't it make you angry, Tuan?
Are you just going to
sit back while WatchMe
replaces your flesh, blood,
and bone with intangible data?
Well, I can't. I won't.
I won't.
Miach!
[huffs]
Wake up, Sleeping Beauty,
we're back.
[TUAN]
Helix Inspectors.
We are the elite
soldiers of Lifeism.
The watchmen of the
World Health Organization.
As the name implies,
our founding mandate
was to monitor
the world's genetic
research programs.
To ensure no prohibited
manipulation was taking place.
The genetics version of the
Worldwide Nuclear Institute.
As the operation expanded,
we became something akin
to the old UN Peacekeepers.
Armed to the teeth
and butting into conflicts
all over the world,
in the name of "preserving
the right to live."
Dry, with a hint of sand. Here.
[SOLDIER C]
I got smokes and plenty of 'em!
[TUAN] I fled all the way
out to this desert battlefield
just to find ways
to damage myself.
I made my clever escape
from their prison,
from their society that
was slowly killing me
with kindness.
Breaking out was
easier than I thought.
I pretended to accept adulthood
and tricked the system.
[SOLDIER E]
Yo!
[TUAN laughs]
[gasps]
It's about time,
Senior Inspector Kirie.
What kept you?
[TUAN]
Chief Os Cara!
[gasps] These are
my private quarters.
What are you doing here?
For starters,
why don't you show me what
you just hid behind your back?
[TUAN huffs]
[OS CARA]
Mm, Château Pétrus.
Good choice.
While most Bordeaux reds are
made from a blend of grapes,
this one is an
interesting exception,
made from a hundred
percent Merlot.
[TUAN gasps]
I am familiar with alcohol.
I may not look it, but I'm 72.
My generation was the
last to experience it.
Yes, Chief. I'm aware.
Overseeing the Nigerien
cease-fire is a vital mission,
demanding complete impartiality.
The situation is delicate
and very tenuous.
The Helix Inspection
report you submit
will determine which side
the Admedistration backs.
Yet instead of
remaining neutral,
you're running ongoing,
illegal trade with the Tuareg.
Furthermore, if word were
to get out that our agents
were consuming
alcohol and tobacco,
it would create a
total PR nightmare!
Ingesting those substances
should have triggered
a warning from the
health management server.
Why did your WatchMe
not report this self-abuse?
Oh, you know us girls
and our feminine wiles.
Or should I say, those of us
who are still young enough
to remember
how to use them.
Don't get saucy
with me, Inspector.
I don't know how you managed
to get away with this,
but do your even comprehend
how much your actions have
damaged this operation?
They haven't, and they won't.
Nothing I do could ever
tarnish this emblem
or the office it stands for.
Because you're not going
to tell anyone anything.
[OS CARA huffs]
We both know if the integrity
of Helix Inspectors
is even questioned, the
W.H.O. loses all credibility
and all its hard work to "heal
the world" becomes meaningless.
And I highly doubt you'd
be eager to see that happen.
Well played.
But, don't think for a second
you get off scot-free.
You will be punished for
your insubordination.
Effective immediately, you are
relieved from active duty.
Relieved from--?
You wanna just up
and send me home?
You can't do that!
I already did.
This is a battlefield,
not a tavern.
You need to be reeducated.
You've forgotten what it's like
to love and be loved
by your neighbors.
This is for your own good.
Damn it...
Japan...
[TUAN] After all I'd done
to escape that gulag!
As a teenager, I detested it.
And Miach Mihie
hated it even more.
[TUAN]
I failed.
I'm here.
I'm still alive.
That means I failed.
How powerless.
How completely dependent I was.
I thought all
I needed was Miach.
She gave us not only her vision,
but the tools, the weapons
to go through with it!
If she couldn't help me do it,
I knew I'd never be able to.
I would be condemned to live.
I was so certain.
I didn't believe my
will was strong enough,
that I was strong
enough on my own.
[MOTHER gasps]
Tuan! You're awake!
I failed again.
[MOTHER]
Tuan!
Tuan, can you hear me?
I'm here. Mommy's here.
Everything's fine.
You're okay. [sobs]
I'm so happy.
So happy we found you in time.
[sobbing continues]
[TUAN]
And Miach?
[MOTHER]
Miach, she... [whimpers]
[TUAN]
I see...
She succeeded.
[MOTHER weeping]
[MOTHER gasps]
[TUAN]
What are you doing, Mom?
Don't cry.
I mean it, stop.
Your tears are empty, useless.
You didn't cause this.
It's not your fault.
How can you feel so guilty
over the death of someone
you never even met?
Society has tricked
us into believing
we all care about each other.
It compels you to blame yourself
for not being able to stop her.
Even though there's
nothing you could've done.
It's not real.
I can't stand it.
I've had enough.
[MOTHER]
Cian is gonna be okay.
She's being treated at the
Emergency Ethics Center.
They're taking very
good care of her there.
[TUAN]
I'm sorry, Miach.
[MIACH]
Well, I'm a goner.
Are you guys gonna die with me?
[gasps]
[TUAN] Miach was the
smartest girl I'd ever met,
so thorough, so well prepared.
No problem existed that she
couldn't find a solution to.
I knew she'd come up
with the perfect way
to strike back at the "system."
[gasps]
[MIACH] Here, I hacked
my parents' MediCare unit.
[MIACH]
One a day,
and your body will stop
absorbing all nutrients.
You'll starve to death.
[TUAN]
Okay.
[CIAN gasps]
[TUAN] Cian and I were the
followers in our little cult.
Miach was its
charismatic leader.
She was a radical idealist
who knew too much,
and hated even more.
Things were always
going to come to this.
It was inevitable.
[TUAN]
I'm sorry, Miach.
[MIACH] I'm not interested
in normal people.
[TUAN] Miach Mihie: problem
child, juvenile delinquent,
had the best
grades in our class.
She kept to herself, preferring
a beautiful kind of solitude,
shunning the various cliques
that invited her in.
Aside from me and Cian Reikado,
she never spoke to anyone unless
it was absolutely necessary.
[MIACH] If you're serious
about truly isolating yourself,
paper media is the
best way to do it.
Movies'll work too,
but nothing beats
a physical book.
[TUAN]
Why is that?
Because it's the most intimate.
Just you and the pages.
Isolated.
[TUAN] Tangible, paper books
had become all but obsolete.
But that didn't deter Miach.
She would download text
she wanted from the internet,
take it to one of the
few remaining printers,
and have them make
a physical copy.
She spent her days swimming
through a vast sea of words,
searching for anything
that would give her
the edge she wanted.
[MIACH]
Given the inclination,
a few people could easily
kill everyone in Japan.
All they'd need are
the MediCare units.
[gasps]
[MIACH]
Every home and business
has at least one of
these "magic boxes."
[TUAN grunts]
Miach!
Say you could rig them
all to dispense poison.
You'd have millions of
tiny chemical weapons
in pill or injectable form.
The Admedistration conditions
us to trust medicine.
It makes us healthy,
makes us feel good.
No one bothers wondering if
what they synthesize for us
could ever be harmful.
Exploiting those weaknesses
wouldn't take much.
[gasps]
[TUAN gasps]
Turn the system against itself,
and we overthrow the world.
[TUAN] Day by day, the
world becomes a healthier,
safer, more beautiful
and wholesome place.
Where peace and
prosperity reign supreme.
So full of kindness and good
intentions, I wanna retch.
I hate this country.
I detest it so much, I ran
as far away as I could.
But now, the prodigal
daughter has returned.
[MALE ANNOUNCER]
The Tokyo Haneda Aiport
has a wide variety of
medical services available.
[MALE ANNOUNCER]
Relax, Take your time.
And please proceed to the
nearest healthcare center
at your leisure.
[MALE ANNOUNCER] We hope you
enjoy your stay in Japan...
[TUAN]
It's all the same.
Everyone looks the same,
sounds the same,
does the same things
as everyone else.
[MALE ANNOUNCER] ...to take
MediCare recommended supplements
prior to departure
and after arrival.
[MALE ANNOUNCER]
Always remember
to be kind to one another.
Love thy neighbor,
and have goodwill
towards your fellow man...
[TUAN huffs]
[MALE ANNOUNCER A]
Do not forget,
you are an irreplaceable
resource, and Life is...
[CIAN]
Tuan! Tuan! Tuan, over here!
Oh my gosh, I was so
worried I'd missed you!
[TUAN]
Long time no see.
How'd you know I'd be here?
[CIAN]
Well I didn't, till yesterday.
But, when I found
out I was so happy,
I just had to come
welcome you home!
[TUAN] Yeah, it all
happened kinda fast.
[TUAN]
Cian Reikado.
My old friend who agreed to die
with me thirteen years ago.
[MALE ANNOUNCER A] We hope
you enjoy your stay in Japan:
the land of friendship
and hospitality!
All international
travelers will be scanned
for infectious diseases
once you disembark.
Passengers who test positive,
are asked to report...
Uh, Tuan, you're attracting
a lot of attention.
Maybe you shouldn't
travel in your uniform.
It kinda makes you stand out.
[TUAN]
Comes with the territory.
I'm a Helix Inspector,
this is what we wear.
Most of my time is
spent on a battlefield.
I couldn't care less
if I blend in here.
[CIAN laughs]
[CIAN] It must be exciting to
have such an important job!
You get to help make
the world a better place!
Are you going to be
staying with your parents?
[TUAN]
Nah, I'll just find a hotel.
No point going home.
[CIAN] But, you've
been away for so long!
I'm sure everyone
will wanna see you!
[TUAN]
Who's "everyone"?
My mom gathering the neighbors
for a welcome home party?
Yeah, no thanks.
[CIAN]
Why not?
[TUAN] I wouldn't know
what to say to anyone.
[CIAN]
What do you mean?
Tell them about your adventures
in the Sahara, or Colombia.
People wanna know
what you've been up to.
[TUAN] No one wants
to hear my war stories.
The grim parts would
be too upsetting.
And most of it's not as
exciting as you think.
[CIAN] But, after all this
time, you're finally home.
People need to get
to know you again,
So you can rejoin the community.
[TUAN] I'd rather be
on my own for a bit.
What've you been up to?
[CIAN]
Volunteering mostly.
My day job isn't
anything special,
so I try to donate my time
at least three days a week.
Delivering meals, caring for
the elderly, stuff like that.
And of course, I still go
to Morality Sessions
and Health Ethics
meetings online,
but that's only
15 hours a month.
Oh, really?
You should come sometime, Tuan.
They help a lot.
[CIAN]
Are you hungry?
Why don't we grab a bite?
There's a new restaurant near
my place that just opened.
[TUAN]
Just us two?
[CIAN]
Yeah!
And you can stay over after,
instead of going to a hotel.
[TUAN]
Cian, my friend,
who once tried to die with me
to rebel against this world,
was now fully immersed in it.
She had connected herself to it.
Her WatchMe was tethered to
an Admedistration server,
that told her how
to live her life.
She had plunged
headfirst into adulthood.
While here I stand,
stubbornly refusing to jump.
Can't decide if
that's admirable,
or pathetic.
[gasps, grunts]
[CIAN]
Tuan! What's wrong?
Do you feel unwell,
Helix Inspector?
If you'd like I'd be happy
to give you my seat.
[TUAN] If I don't get the
hell out of this country fast,
I'll wind up slashing my
wrists or killing someone.
I can't stand the kindness.
But, that's not the
only reason I left.
On the battlefield, I've met
all kinds of different people,
from countries
all over the world.
The medically standardized
population here,
feels more like a
house of mirrors.
Why'd you storm off like that?
It was rude not to
accept her offer.
With that high an S.A. score,
she might be a public official.
I know, I saw.
[TUAN] Cian and I took different
paths after Miach's death.
She let go of her defiance
and conformed to what
society wanted of her.
It had all been like a
rite of passage for her,
a phase she grew out of and
discarded once she grew up.
On the surface,
it appeared as though
I'd done the same thing.
I went out with friends,
got good grades.
Eventually, I took Miach's
place at the head of the class.
But, the whole time,
I secretly clung
to the heretical ideas
she had instilled in me.
[gasps]
[CIAN]
Wow, this takes me back.
It's been a while since
we ate lunch together.
[TUAN]
That it has.
[giggles]
Doesn't it feel weird, though?
With just the two of us?
Without Miach?
I guess, but she's
been gone for a while.
[CIAN] She always finished
eating way before us.
Then she'd make paper
airplanes just like that,
Remember?
[TUAN]
No, I'd forgotten.
[CIAN] You grew your
hair out. It's nice.
Makes you look more like Miach.
[CIAN] You guys already knew
each other when we met, right?
Had you been friends
for a long time?
[TUAN] I wouldn't say "friends."
More like she took me hostage.
[CIAN]
What does that mean?
[TUAN]
I've never told you this?
One day in the park, she
just ran up and grabbed me.
She wouldn't let go until I
listened to what she had to say.
[CIAN]
Sounds like her.
How she could just snare
someone in her web.
Maybe when she saw you,
she knew you were the friend
she'd been waiting for,
and she didn't want to lose you.
I don't think so.
[CIAN]
Hm?
[TUAN] Miach wasn't
looking for a friend,
she wanted to find
a kindred spirit.
[CIAN] Aren't those pretty
much the same thing?
[TUAN]
Not really.
Friends are your companions,
whereas kindred spirits are
people who share your beliefs.
More like "comrades in arms,"
who want to fight
for the same causes.
Oh, you mean like soldiers.
Guess we didn't turn out to
be what she'd hoped for,
or at least I didn't.
Guess not.
[CIAN] Tuan, there's
something I need to tell you.
I have a confession to make.
[TUAN]
What is it?
[CIAN] I never took any
of the pills Miach gave me.
I put the first one in my mouth
that day, but I didn't swallow.
Then, I told my mom
and ratted you out.
[TUAN]
I didn't know that.
[CIAN] I was too scared
to go through with it.
Tuan? Aren't you mad at me?
[TUAN]
We were kids.
I can't really blame you.
I owe you my life.
Thank you for saying that,
but I don't deserve
your forgiveness.
I betrayed both of you,
and it still didn't save her.
[TUAN]
It wasn't your fault, Cian.
[CIAN grunts]
It was though.
I felt like I was paralyzed.
I didn't take the pills, but
I didn't tell right away either.
Fear overwhelmed me and I
locked myself in my room.
After a few days, my mom took me
to the Emergency Ethics Center.
But, before I could even
see one of the counselors,
it all came pouring out.
My mom told the
counselors immediately,
so of course they
called your mom.
They were able to
get to you in time.
But not Miach.
By the time anyone made
it over to check on her,
it was too late.
She'd been taking those
stupid pills so long
that she'd become emaciated
and her organs started
shutting down one by one.
Her body was so damaged,
they wouldn't even allow
her parents to bury her.
No burial? So, then what
did they do with her body?
Miach's mom told us they
donated it to science
for medical research.
[sniffs] Visiting her after
the funeral was hard,
but I wanted to beg
her forgiveness.
Maybe this is too hard for you.
[CIAN]
No, I want to talk about it.
Even when Miach was alive,
I used to wonder sometimes
why I was her friend.
We were so different.
Why did I wanna hang
out with her all the time?
[TUAN]
Ever figure it out?
[CIAN]
Strange as it sounds,
I think it's because I
felt like she needed me.
Not to say we had
nothing in common,
I wasn't sure where
I belonged, either.
And all that pressure to fit in,
was just too much.
[TUAN]
Huh.
[CIAN] All I wanted was to find
a way out before it crushed me,
but that wasn't enough for her.
She was determined to fight.
Even though I agreed with her,
I didn't think we needed to die
or kill anyone to prove a point.
She lived on the edge.
I know.
She was always so outspoken,
always had to push the limits,
which is why I felt
like she needed me.
I was there to keep
her from going too far.
On some level, I think
that's what she wanted.
She was relying on me
to be the voice of reason
and hold her back.
But, when it really
mattered, I was too scared.
I never realized you'd been
friends with her for her sake.
You're braver than you know.
[gasps]
[WAITRESS]
More water?
[whimpers]
I'm sorry, Miach.
[gasps]
[WAITRESS whimpers]
[CIAN groans]
[gasps]
[CIAN groans, grunts]
[CIAN gurgles
[gasps]
[CIAN]
Miach...
...I'm sorry...
I'm sorr-- I'm sorry, Miach...
[MALE OFFICER A]
Disgraceful!
[MALE OFFICER B] It's an
affront to Lifeism itself!
[MALE OFFICER C] Currently, we
have nearly 2800 confirmed dead,
but that number could climb.
At the exact same moment, 6582
people simultaneously
attempted suicide.
2796 of them were successful.
Eight hours and counting
since the event.
Dozens remain hospitalized
in critical condition.
Final death toll could
be well over 3,000.
[FEMALE OFFICER A]
No common method
or other recognizable
pattern links these incidents.
[FEMALE OFFICER A] However,
over half of those involved
were wearing augmented
contact lenses at the time.
Those visual feeds have
been uploaded to the server.
We're analyzing the data now.
[ICHIRO panting]
[ICHIRO grunting]
[ICHIRO grunts]
[ICHIRO gasps]
[ICHIRO panting]
[ICHIRO gruting]
[OFFICERS gasp]
This--This is a terrorist
attack at the very
foundation of Lifeism!
What's the condition
of the survivors?
[MALE OFFICER C] Those who
did not perish immediately,
have fallen into an
irreversible comatose state.
We are so far unable to question
them about what they did,
or why.
As of this moment, the Helix
Inspection Agency officially
classifies this incident
as a criminal attack
against Admedistrative society!
We will investigate and
find those responsible.
In two hours,
an emergency W.H.O. meeting
will convene in Geneva.
Each of you should be familiar
with the treaties between
the W.H.O., and your respective
Admedistration territories.
Now is the time to make
them honor those treaties.
Take the initiative.
Show the world this office
will not sit idly by
while someone threatens
our way of life!
[TUAN grunts]
[TUAN] Why are you
calling on a secure line?
[OS CARA] Not only was one of
the victims a friend of yours,
but she did it right
in front of you.
You've been
emotionally traumatized.
Procedure dictates
you be suspended
until you've
received drug therapy
and at least 100
hours counseling.
You really think I'm
traumatized? Hmph.
'Cause it sounds more like
you're trying to find a way
to keep me off this case, and I
don't think you wanna do that.
If you did, I might
have to go to the press
and tell them about Niger.
I'm sure they'd love to hear
about our troops' consumption
of illegal substances.
You cannot be serious.
[TUAN]
Oh, I am deadly serious.
When it comes to blackmail,
I don't screw around.
[growls]
Besides, Helix Inspectors
who witness traumatic events
in the field, can be given
a reprieve before reporting
for mandatory therapy in order
to complete their missions.
The only condition is that a
Chief Inspector sign off on it.
All right, I shall approve your
request for a five day reprieve.
But understand,
this will grant you nothing
beyond a brief delay.
Not even I have the power
to do more than that.
[TUAN] What if I never
returned to Japan?
What if I never went
to lunch with Cian?
Would she still have
taken her own life?
[TUAN]
Miach once said something like,
"Anyone can kill themselves,
Or kill someone else.
It only depends on
whether they have the will.
People hold the power
to destroy things
even more important
than life," she said.
Only, she never told
us what that meant.
All these years later,
did Cian figure it out?
Did she do this just
to prove Miach right?
Whatever they knew,
they took it with them,
and left me behind.
Five days.
That's all the time I have
to figure out why Cian died.
I hope it's enough.
I never realized you had been
friends with her for her sake.
You're braver than you know.
[CIAN]
I'm sorry, Miach.
[CIAN gasping]
[CIAN rasping, gurgling]
[WAITRESS gasps]
[CIAN grunts]
[thudding]
[CIAN gurgles]
[CIAN]
Miach... I-I'm sorry.
I'm sorr--
[TUAN huffs]
[CIAN]
I'm sorry, Miach...
[A.I.] Approximately
one month after the death
of their only daughter,
the Mihie family was relocated
to the Fifth Tama District.
Activate "Information
Isolation Mode".
Authorization: Tuan Kirie.
[A.I.]
Authorization Accepted.
Profile data for Senior
Inspector Tuan Kirie,
will display only to those
with at least Level 5 clearance.
Fifteen minutes until
arrival at Mihie residence.
WatchMe data indicates
Reiko Mihie is at home.
With Isolation Mode engaged,
she will not be notified of
Inspector Kirie's
impending visit.
[TUAN] Back then,
it hadn't occurred to me
to wonder about
Miach's parents.
We never met each
other's families,
or even talked about them.
It just never mattered to us.
Throughout history,
people have made a habit of
letting outside influences
control their lives.
Their families,
careers, religion.
And perhaps worst of all, money.
Yet money used to be made of
nothing more than flimsy paper.
Back then, people would say,
"Money can't buy happiness,"
but no one actually believed it.
Money's sent many
great nations to war.
Money's made women and
girls sell their bodies.
Nearly all aspects of everyday
life somehow revolved around it.
[MIACH] But, WatchMe is far more
dangerous than money ever was.
It permeates our every cell,
holding our bodies
as its hostage.
And in the process,
it robs us of something
that money never could.
[TUAN] What kind of
people are Miach's parents,
to have raised a
daughter like that?
A girl who romanticized
the downfall of humanity,
who delighted at how
easy it would be
to poison thousands of people.
[REIKO]
Yes? How may I help you?
[TUAN] I'm a Helix
Inspector with the W.H.O.
We're investigating
yesterday's mass suicides,
and I was hoping you could
answer some questions--
[REIKO]
Such a tragedy.
I heard about it on
the news this morning,
but what's that got to--
[TUAN]
It's about your daughter.
[REIKO]
I don't understand.
She passed away
over ten years ago.
[TUAN]
I'm aware.
I'd like to ask you about what
she was like before her death.
[REIKO]
Before?
All right, please come in.
[REIKO]
It's not a pleasant story.
She tried to kill herself many
times before she succeeded.
[TUAN] Yes, our records show
she made prior attempts.
Miach was beyond our control.
She was incredibly
strong-willed and clever.
However, she was also
a sensitive child.
A delicate, fragile little girl
we loved as much as
we possibly could.
When she came to us, they
said that would be enough.
Came to you?
We adopted Miach.
When she was eight.
[gasps]
She was adopted?
That's not in her records.
The Admedistration
had launched a campaign
urging childless
couples to adopt.
Perhaps you remember the
conflict in Chechnya?
[TUAN]
Of course.
Conditions are still
horrible there.
The day we brought her home,
they told us she came
from an ethnic minority
in the region and that she'd
been found in a refugee camp.
[TUAN]
She was a war orphan.
[REIKO]
They gave us few other details.
All they said was she had been
through some truly horrific
experiences there.
Long before we got her,
she'd already undergone
intense trauma therapy.
However, because
she was so young,
the doctors believed she could
still grow up to be a productive
member of society. That all she
needed was a warm, loving home.
They said it would be enough,
but they were wrong. [sobs]
Time and time again
we stopped her
and sent her back to treatment.
She was determined.
Eventually, she found a way.
[TUAN]
I never knew Miach carried
such a profound
darkness inside her.
It wasn't something
she shared with me.
After all she'd
been through,
that she could still hate
Japan so much spoke volumes.
She was a child of war,
yet, it was like
she preferred that true hell
to this false heaven.
[REIKO] The doctors recommended
we get rid of anything she had
that might remind her
of her former life.
But, I just couldn't bring
myself to throw that away.
[gasps]
[MIACH]
Ever seen a business card?
People used to use these
to share information.
But only with who
they wanted to.
The picture is our logo.
It's so cute!
I like it!
[TUAN, CIAN giggle]
May I ask about Miach's body?
Her death certificate lists
no place of interment.
Was she returned to Chechnya?
No, a researcher
from a university
asked if he could
have her remains.
Just before she died,
she said she wanted to
donate her body to science.
[TUAN]
Who was this researcher?
I'm afraid I can't help you.
I don't know his name.
We never had any direct contact.
This is an investigation,
so I need to know.
And my authority
as a Helix Inspector
allows me to access
confidential information.
So, if you don't mind,
this will just take a moment.
[REIKO gasps]
[gasps]
[TUAN]
Keita Saeki?
His theoretical research on
pharmacology and Medicules
was the basis for WatchMe.
[TUAN] And the man who used
to call himself my father,
Nuada Kirie, once
worked in his lab.
He walked out on us, never to
be seen or heard from again.
Thirteen years ago.
Immediately after, I tried to
die alongside my two friends.
[KEITA]
Please, come in.
I've been expecting you.
[TUAN] Thank you for
seeing me, Professor.
You're looking well.
[KEITA] Looking well is a
given in this day and age.
Thanks to WatchMe, who doesn't?
The once harsh realities of
illness and aging are
things of the past.
[TUAN] It's an antiquated
turn of phrase, perhaps,
but it's something I've
always wanted to say
to the father of WatchMe.
[KEITA] I never imagined a
voraciously health-conscious
society would use
it the way it has,
but the Maelstrom
changed everything.
The result is the
world we now live in.
[TUAN]
What do you mean?
People didn't always
want this kind of future?
[KEITA] What happened
over 50 years ago,
was a cataclysm of
apocalyptic proportions.
More than ten million lives
lost in North America alone.
The chaos and nuclear
war that followed
nearly destroyed the planet.
There was violence and
terrorism on a global scale.
Fear reigned supreme, and
the world as we know it,
with its WatchMe
and Admedistrations,
was born of that fear.
A fear that's never
fully gone away.
But I'm certain you didn't
come here for a history lesson.
So, what can I do for
you, Helix Inspector?
I assume this is about
yesterday's mass suicides?
It's about Miach Mihie.
You took custody of her
remains after her death.
Her body was supposed to
be delivered to this lab,
but it wasn't.
All specimens passing through
this facility get processed
and cataloged, yet
there's no record of her.
The reason why?
You didn't actually
take Miach's body!
However, my father,
Nuada Kirie, did!
Hold on, now. When did your
father come in to this?
I don't have time for games.
Tell me the truth.
Where did he take her,
what did he want with her,
and is any of this connected
to what happened yesterday?
Fine. I'll get a warrant
if that's what it takes.
Nuada's little girl grew
into a real ball breaker.
He'd be proud.
Wouldn't know. It's an
occupational hazard,
though I've been known to
break more than just balls.
[KEITA sighs]
He's in Baghdad.
At one of the labs of the
SEC Neuroscience Consortium.
My one-time student has
now surpassed his teacher.
He moved on to far
more advanced research.
The two of us have
had no communication
since the day he left.
What was he researching?
[KEITA] A few years back,
a Russian scientist
published a groundbreaking
thesis on the mesencephalon
and how its neurological
synapses affect human will.
Sounds rather complicated,
but in layman's terms,
it's simply the theory of
"why we do what we do."
This area here is the
mesencephalon, or midbrain.
Sometimes known as the
mind's reward center,
it's where structures
called Substantia Nigra
supply the brain with dopamine.
People tend to think of human
will as singular and focused,
like a soul with a conscience.
You have an angel and
a devil on each shoulder,
and the only choice is
between right or wrong.
[TUAN]
But, it's not that simple.
[KEITA]
Not even remotely.
Picture a crowded business
meeting with lots of individuals
clamoring to get
their point across.
The vast variety of desires
the brain experiences,
function much the same way.
They shout and kick,
or piss and moan,
competing with each other
to get our attention.
Out of all these
possible motivations,
we only act on one.
Deciding which
one is our will.
But behind the decision,
our brain's reward center
has trained us with
dopamine to respond.
Like giving a treat to a dog.
This fascinated your father.
He became obsessed with
what might be possible
if this chemical reward system
were artificially influenced.
[TUAN]
You mean mind control.
Big shock.
Had a feeling he had something
to do with the suicides.
There's no evidence of that.
And I'm rather surprised
you could possibly
suspect your own father.
He stopped being
my father years ago.
As far as I'm concerned,
I don't know who he is or
what he may be capable of.
Don't be so quick to judge him.
This is the science behind
the human soul itself.
Many researchers have long
been tempted to pursue it.
We only seek the truth.
I'm leaving for Baghdad,
to ascertain the
whereabouts of Miach Mihie.
I intend to find her remains,
even if it means
confronting him.
[TUAN]
Hm?
[MAN] I can give you
a lift to the airport.
Baghdad awaits, yes?
That is classified.
And who are you?
Since I'm in Isolation Mode,
allow me to introduce myself.
Elijah Vashlov: Interpol
Special Investigator.
Ever seen one of these before?
A card?
Aw, it's less fun if you know.
Do you try to pick up
every woman you meet
with a business card?
It usually goes over better.
[VASHLOV]
The whole country is scared.
Things are quiet.
Everyone's afraid of
what might happen next.
Until the other day,
almost no one had seen
death for themselves.
They all assumed they would
never have to deal with it.
People dying right
in front of you
isn't something that
should happen anymore.
Yet it did, and therapy
centers have reached capacity.
Admedistration citizens were
happy in their ignorance,
confident that
nothing unpleasant
would ever knock on their doors.
We are conditioned to
care for one another
and protect life at all costs.
That belief has kept
our society running.
But now everyone knows
this world has never been
the Utopia it appeared to be.
[TUAN]
Does that frighten you?
[VASHLOV]
Of course it does.
Right now, most
people are terrified
of what they don't know,
while I'm more
afraid of what I do.
The group Interpol's been
surveilling for instance.
What group?
A WatchMe research
consortium called the
Next-Gen Human Behavior
Monitoring Group.
My division has been keeping
an eye on it for a while.
Amid all of the scientists
you would expect to find,
are heads of medical
tech companies
and powerful
Admedistration elders.
Not exactly the lineup
of usual suspects.
It's a long name for
a secret society.
We're more concerned
with their ideology
and why they've been trying
to fly under the radar.
They seem to have strong
memories of the Maelstrom.
Historians may not
agree on how it began,
but there's no doubt about
how fast it went wrong.
Humanity reverted to
savagery and barbarism
in the blink of an eye.
No one thought our species
was still capable of that.
Not until several
millions of people died.
So, now this group
wants to use WatchMe
to ensure it never
happens again.
[TUAN] Hmph. That's quite
the conspiracy theory.
What's the rest of
their evil plan?
World domination?
I'll speak slowly, since you
don't seem to understand
what I am telling you.
This one group has the entire
planet under observation.
They don't trust people
to control themselves,
so they exploited
a hole in WatchMe,
which allows them
to manually override
bad choices we might make.
Take away our free will.
Exactly.
Interpol believed the suicides
that happened the other day
were a first test.
But, if they
created the override
to keep people from
killing each other,
why test it by making
them kill themselves?
What would you say to
you and I joining forces?
We both want to get
to the bottom of this
and two heads are
better than one.
Of course, Interpol
may take some convincing.
Not everyone in the
office thinks highly
of Helix Inspectors.
They may not like one
horning in on their turf.
Rumor has it, the
W.H.O.'s missions abroad
aren't so much about peace
as they are about spreading
the religion of Lifeism.
And their non-interference
policy is bull.
Well, that's true.
[VASHLOV] Look, I know
a lot of this sounds crazy,
but you have to believe me. Time
is short, and I need your hel--
[VASHLOV gasps]
Vashlov, here.
Turn on Edison Carter.
Network 24.
Some sort of breaking news.
[CARTER] We interrupt your
regularly scheduled programming
to bring you a special
report with new information
on the mass suicides.
Moments ago, our studio
received a memorycel
containing an anonymous
message from persons
claiming to be responsible.
We will now play that
message in its entirety.
Viewer discretion is advised.
[ROBOTIC VOICE]
A lot of people have died.
They all ended their lives
in the same moment.
This must have been
shocking for you.
Some of you experienced
the horror firsthand.
And if you didn't,
you now fear that you will.
We did this. We are responsible.
How we did this, is for us
to know and you to find out.
But you will. The weapon we
used is already inside you.
You can't remove it,
it's too late.
You've seen what
we are capable of.
We have held you hostage.
Are you frightened? Angry?
You are probably feeling
several things all at once.
Treasure these emotions.
They are real.
Yet, the society we live in
considers them dangerous,
unhealthy.
It doesn't want you to feel.
We don't have
to stop feeling.
This isn't written anywhere.
It's not a law, but we are
compelled all the same.
Haven't you had enough of
this constant, public coercion?
Don't you want to escape?
Let's make a declaration.
Right here, now,
to create a new world.
But, before we can embark
on this great endeavor,
you have to prove you are ready.
Sometime within
the next seven days,
each of you must kill at
least one other person.
Use any means necessary.
How you do it is not important.
The only thing we
care about is why.
Show us how selfish you can be.
Demonstrate that you care
about self-preservation.
Those unwilling or unable
to complete this task,
will die. Simple as that.
This is no empty threat.
We will kill you without
warning and without mercy.
All we have to do
is push a button,
and you will kill yourselves.
Don't believe us? Don't worry.
We'll remove any
shadow of a doubt.
This is real, and we
are very serious.
Keep watching.
It'll only take a moment.
You don't want to miss this.
We promise it won't disappoint.
Stay tuned.
[TUAN whimpers]
That's all, and this station has
received no further messages.
At the present time, however,
we are unable to verify
the message's origin.
Please remain calm.
Until authorities are able to
authenticate these statements,
there is no need to panic.
--[VASHLOV gasps]
--[CARTER screams]
[CARTER grunting]
[VASHLOV]
What the hell did I just see?!
[gasps]
It's her!
[TUAN]
"Let's make a declaration."
It's Miach. Those are her words!
[MIACH]
"The Sorrows of Young Werther."
This book killed a lot
of people, you know.
Rather impressive.
[TUAN]
It's just a book.
How can it kill someone?
[MIACH]
Werther, the title character,
falls in love with a
woman named Charlotte.
But she is already engaged
to marry another man.
This creates an
unfortunate love triangle,
and when Werther realizes his
affections aren't returned,
he takes his own life.
Sounds like a tragic
love story, sure,
but I still don't see
how it could kill.
The book was so popular,
people tried to emulate Werther.
They dressed like him,
ate like him,
some even killed
themselves like him.
Fiction is just that,
but the emotions it
can elicit are very real.
In this case,
the power of suggestion
was strong enough to kill.
I think that's amazing.
[TUAN]
What's wrong with me?
Am I chasing a ghost?
Cian was the only
one who got a call.
[TUAN] I know whose
voice I'm expecting,
but I don't wanna believe it.
Cian did though,
even said her name.
[MIACH]
Hi, Cian, long time no speak.
I'm lonely. I miss you.
You and Tuan
didn't come with me,
even though you
promised me you would.
You let me die alone.
[TUAN gasps]
[MIACH]
I know it's been thirteen years,
but I wanted to
get ahold of you,
to talk about right and wrong.
[MIACH]
What do you think they are?
Being a good person,
helping your fellow man:
those things are right,
aren't they?
Or, is it only because
society tells you they are?
When push comes to shove,
right and wrong are just words.
What matters is what you do,
how you act, what you believe.
What matters is making sure
the world keeps spinning,
making sure family goes on,
happiness goes on,
peace goes on.
Doing what needs to be
done to make life go on.
That's what's right. Right?
Except life doesn't go on.
Nothing lasts forever.
We're born, we grow up, we grow
old, we get sick... and we die.
That's nature.
And there is no right or
wrong in nature, only change.
But, I guess...
things are different now.
WatchMe changed nature.
Illness and aging,
as the world once knew them,
have been virtually eliminated.
Well-being trumps all.
Health is the new god.
In ancient times,
kings and queens threatened
to execute any who opposed them.
They ruled by force.
Might made right.
Then, the Bastille fell and tea
was dumped in Boston Harbor,
And "power of the people,"
became the order of the day.
[MIACH] But, what if
people are the problem?
How do we fight the
enemy within ourselves?
When we let our bodies
decide what's right for us,
the question and the
answer are both the same.
You were supposed to
come with me, Cian.
You and Tuan made a promise.
[gasps]
[MIACH] We swore we
were in this together.
We made a pact.
You hurt me, I was upset,
but if you make it up
to me, I'll forgive you.
There's still time to join me.
Still time to show the world
nothing lasts forever.
[gasps]
[MIACH]
Right here, now,
prove your body belongs
to you and you alone.
[gasps]
--[TUAN whimpering]
--[MIACH] You control your body,
It doesn't control you.
Be brave for me, Cian.
Finish what you started.
[TUAN whimpers]
[TUAN gasps, whimpers]
That's it. Show me
how strong you can be.
Show it to the world.
[whimpers]
I'm sorry, Miach.
[grunting]
[gasps]
[coughing]
[FEMALE ANNOUNCER] Northern
Passengers Flight 9-4-7
from Tokyo will be arriving
soon in Baghdad Medical City.
Passengers and flight crew,
please prepare for landing.
Miach didn't die.
She's alive...
...She's alive.
[TUAN] Somehow, some way,
Miach Mihie survived.
Now, she's reappeared
in dramatic fashion
and thrown down the
gauntlet to the world.
Kill and live, or
don't and be killed.
This is her new declaration.
Miach intends to test us all.
[TUAN]
The Dian Cecht Complex.
After the Maelstrom,
Baghdad became a metropolis
of teaching hospitals,
industrial medical centers,
and research labs.
Taxes were low.
Laws were lax.
And the Admedistration here
didn't ask what anyone was
doing behind closed doors.
The perfect place for my
father to disappear to.
And he took Miach with him.
[WOMAN]
Beautiful, isn't it?
Looking out at the
upper gardens,
it's easy to forget
where you are.
Good Morning,
I'm Gabrielle Étaín,
SEC Neuroscience Consortium.
I hope this isn't a surprise
inspection, Agent Kirie.
Not that we're doing anything
the W.H.O. need
be concerned about.
The experiments at this facility
adhere to strict medical
and ethical guidelines.
Everything is above board.
I'm not here for that.
I'm attempting to
locate someone,
a Dr. Nuada Kirie, who I'm
told is part of your team?
Yes, he did work with us, but it
was some time ago, I'm afraid.
[TUAN] Do you know
where I might find him?
[GABRIELLE]
I do not, sadly.
[TUAN]
You're sure?
Why such an interest?
Dr. Kirie's my father,
but you know that.
[GABRIELLE] Of course.
I do have the clearance.
So, if you are not here
for a surprise inspection,
You've come all the way
to Baghdad for a...
...family reunion, is it?
[TUAN] I'm here as part of
an official investigation.
Your cooperation
is not optional.
Tell me about the
research you're doing
and how my father was involved.
Very well, our focus
is value judgements.
For instance, I offer you
ten thousand credits now,
or twenty thousand credits
one year from now.
Which amount do you choose?
[TUAN]
Probably the former.
[GABRIELLE]
Most do.
Given the choice,
the majority of human beings
prefer instant gratification.
But so do other primates,
birds, dogs, and cats.
Organisms that exhibit
this behavior,
tend to overvalue that
which is easily obtained.
[TUAN]
Hm...
[GABRIELLE]
It's genetic programming.
Consider a heron.
If it doesn't eat the
fish it sees immediately,
that fish will be eaten
by another heron.
But, if another fish
doesn't come along,
the first heron
starves to death.
This is not survival
of the most fit.
It's an ongoing conflict between
small short-term desires
and larger long-term desires.
An illogical game of
choice we call "will."
In accordance
with this theory,
even pain is something
we choose to feel.
Explain that.
[GABRIELLE]
The pain we experience
the moment we prick a
finger is a feedback agent,
a short-term desire trying
to leave an impression
on the mind, and get
us to take action.
Usually, to stop said pain.
However, I'm sure you've
heard of instances where
a machinist or construction
worker has sliced off a finger,
and not noticed
right away because
they were concentrating
on something else.
This phenomenon occurs
when the agent for pain,
competes with the agent
for focus and loses.
Thus, the consciousness
delays giving it attention.
So, our reality's not
shaped by our experiences,
it's subjective.
All the various feedback
agents in our brains
shout at the top of their lungs
and our minds only
listen to the loudest.
That's a simplified
way of looking at it,
but you seem to
grasp the concept.
Before I go, I'd like to
ask your expert opinion.
I assume you heard
the audio recording.
Do you think the
threats are credible?
Could they pull
off such a thing?
[GABRIELLE]
I doubt it.
Judging by the
research done here,
controlling another person's
will or presenting them with
an alternate reality,
is impossible.
Not to mention
unethical and immoral.
What about the
ultimatum they issued?
Will you do anything
before the deadline comes,
or let it pass?
[GABRIELLE]
I shall do nothing.
Clearly they are just
trying to frighten us.
If you'll excuse me,
I must return to my work.
One last question.
Are you familiar with
a research consortium
I was advised to
look into called
the Next-Gen Human
Behavior Monitoring Group?
I'm not.
Take me to the hotel.
It's about time I checked in.
[A.I.] Reservation confirmed
at the Baghdad Hotel on
Saadoun Street.
[MALE INSPECTOR A] Senior
Inspector Kirie is online!
[OS CARA] Request immediate
Aug Meeting participation!
Status report! How many homicide
cases since the broadcast?
[MALE INSPECTOR B]
Currently unable to calculate
exact numbers, but they are
increasing at an alarming rate!
[MALE OFFICER C] Admedistrations
and authorities across the globe
are desperately trying to
calm down their citizens,
but there is only
so much they can do.
[OS CARA] What's the latest
on the alleged masterminds?
[FEMALE OFFICER A]
Chief Inspector,
Urgent report just in
from Japan! More suicides!
[MALE OFFICER A] This latest
wave is over three hundred!
These are different.
Many of them left notes.
[OFFICERS gasp, chatter]
[FEMALE OFFICER A] Incoming
dispatch: similar incidents!
Notes also discovered post
mortem in both Germany
and Spain!
[OFFICERS chattering]
What's written in these notes?
What one would expect:
"I can't kill anyone,"
"To my wife, forgive me,"
"If I took another's life,
I wouldn't be able
to live with myself."
"I realize my life is
a precious commodity,
but so is everyone else's."
"This is an impossible
situation. There's no
other way out. I must do this."
The rest are various
apologies to spouses,
children, siblings,
friends and neighbors.
They regret choosing
to end their lives.
I don't believe
the perpetrators
of the original
incident are behind this.
It's simple cause and effect.
People are overreacting out of
fear and if it's not contained,
the panic will only
continue to spread.
Who else knows?
As of now, these deaths
have not been reported
to the general public.
So far, local authorities
have kept it quiet.
Our priority is damage control,
We must prevent this information
from being leaked on the net.
Initiate a total media blackout!
[TUAN]
That should buy us some time,
but probably no more
than a few days.
Call it a hunch,
but I think this chaos
is part of the
perpetrator's master plan.
It's the Werther effect.
[MALE OFFICER A] Can't we just
sever the link between WatchMe
and the health
management servers?
[MALE OFFICER B]
Impossible!
WatchMe is tied to every
aspect of daily life!
If we were to abruptly
disconnect it,
all hell could break loose!
--[OFFICERS gasp]
--[OS CARA] Inspector Kirie!
[TUAN] Abu Nuwas. Outside the
Admedistration security zone.
[LIZ]
Curfews have been put in place
and W.H.O. troops
are out in force
to keep order in the streets.
Government authorities from
around the world are pleading
with citizens to remain calm and
wait for further information.
And we've just received word It
appears that Canada and Italy
have now joined
the list of nations
that have declared a
state of martial law.
[SOLDIER F] Confirm your
identification, please.
I am obligated to inform you
that beyond this checkpoint,
your WatchMe will have
limited functionality
and your safety
cannot be guaranteed.
[TUAN]
I understand.
[MALE SOLDIER F]
Access granted,
proceed at your own risk.
[crowd chattering]
[TUAN] The WatchMe inside
my body must be screaming.
Cautioning me about unfamiliar
foods, unknown calorie counts,
and the dangers
of ingesting it all.
But, out here, and without my
AR lens, I'm unable to listen.
On the other side of the wall is
the center of the medical world,
yet none of these people
are connected to the servers
or even have WatchMe installed.
They haven't surrendered
their physical bodies
to someone else's control.
They are living their lives.
They get colds,
headaches, cancer.
They die in their
sixties or seventies,
just as they did decades ago.
Life here is business as usual,
while a stone's throw away,
terrified Admedistration
citizens are hiding
under their beds.
These people don't
get AR news stations.
They may not even be aware
anything is going on.
[gasps]
[CROWD chattering]
[NUADA]
Civilization was born here.
The ancients called
it Mesopotamia.
[TUAN] I know that voice.
I could never forget it.
[NUADA] It literally means,
"the land between two rivers."
[TUAN]
The Tigris and the Euphrates.
[NUADA chuckles]
Somehow I ended up stuck
in the middle here, too.
It's good to see you, Tuan.
[gasps] Your eye.
My fault.
I was experimenting
and went too far.
It's really you.
How many years since
we last saw each other?
Eight? Ten?
[TUAN]
Thirteen, you bastard.
You walked out on Mom and me
like we meant nothing to you.
Of course you don't remember.
Why would you?
People all over the world
are killing themselves.
[NUADA]
I've heard. It's unfortunate.
It's unfortunate?!
Is that really all
you have to say?!
This is your fault!
Pretty sure your friend, Miach,
deserves some of the blame.
[gasps]
[TUAN]
Why her? Why Miach?
[NUADA]
Even before recent events,
the teen suicide rate was
going up year after year.
You tried it. Your friend,
Cian, considered it.
Miach was ready to
go through with it.
Many children rejected WatchMe
when it was first introduced
and became determined
to hurt themselves.
Lacking any kind of solution,
all the Admedistration could do
was round up the kids and
put them into treatment.
The Next-Gen Human
Behavior Monitoring Group
took custody of especially
resolute individuals
who made multiple attempts.
They were singled out to receive
an experimental treatment.
We needed strong-willed
guinea pigs to test the
Harmony Program on.
Your friend, Miach, was
the perfect candidate.
[gasps] What is this
"Harmony Program?"
[NUADA]
Harmony.
As in synchronicity,
order, coordination.
Like musical notes blending
together to form a chord.
Except what we were after,
was a means to unify the
synapses in the human mind.
The intent was to find a way
to save mankind from
its own savagery.
While working under
Professor Saeki,
I began a thesis on
the brain mechanics
behind choice and determination.
When word of my research
came to the attention
of certain top officials,
who feared a repeat
of the Maelstrom,
they asked me to
join their consortium.
That's how it started.
And eventually it led
to my choosing Miach,
whose rejection of society
made her an ideal subject.
I believed if we could
conquer her mind,
somehow refocus it away
from its relentless pursuit
of her own death,
the program would be powerful
enough to control anyone.
[NUADA chuckles] That was
the presumption, at least.
Perhaps we over-simplified it.
Anyway, welcome to my
humble abode. Come on in.
Assume you're not
opposed to caffeine?
You do your research here?
[NUADA]
No, not here.
Until recently, I had
a lab at Dian Cecht.
That's where you took Miach?
There were side-effects.
[TUAN]
Huh?
[NUADA] The Harmony Program
has one very serious flaw.
In hindsight, the
result was obvious.
We should've anticipated
what would happen,
but we were on the verge
of a major breakthrough.
We created a human mind
where the brain's entire
feedback matrix worked in
perfect harmonious accord.
However, Consciousness
...was destroyed.
[gasps]
Prior to testing on Miach,
we were unaware
of this consequence.
It wasn't detected in
any trials before hers.
Can a person even
live like that?!
So, what happened once
you were done with her?
Did she end up drooling
in a wheelchair?
No, nothing like that.
I'll try to explain.
Going shopping, eating, living.
That goes on as usual.
Just... no choice.
[gasps]
[NUADA] Decision making
is no longer necessary,
because competing feedback
agents have been removed.
From the outside,
it's impossible to tell
who has consciousness,
and who's simply going
through the motions.
They act the same.
[TUAN]
Did Miach?
[NUADA] She appeared to be
living a typical, average life.
She did homework, ate meals,
carried on conversations.
When we first brought
her out of it,
she described what she'd gone
through as pure ecstasy.
After her consciousness
was restored,
she couldn't remember any
details about what happened
during the test.
[NUADA]
Nevertheless,
She recalled the sensation
of being in a blissful,
happy place.
She characterized it as
a positive experience.
But, living without free
will is a kind of death.
Given such serious concerns,
we thought the authorities
should decide how best
to proceed, and they did.
Using WatchMe, they uploaded the
Harmony Program to every man,
woman, and child throughout
the Admedistration.
It's in both you and me,
whether we like it or not.
It's not activated, obviously,
but it's there in our brains
as a safety mechanism
in case of emergency.
If war and chaos,
like the Maelstrom,
were to threaten mankind again,
Harmony can be
turned on to stop it.
No, that's...
For the time being, at least,
it's going to stay off.
Depriving humanity of their
souls, is a last resort.
Though, some within the
organization disagree.
They think we should be
using the program now.
Of course they do.
Miach's one of them.
[scooter rumbles]
[NUADA] Miach is the
reason I asked you here.
I need your help with her.
[TUAN]
Do you, now?
So you made a mess and want
me to clean up after you.
You're just as selfish as ever.
[NUADA] There's a splinter
group targeting me.
It's not safe here,
you have to leave.
Find Miach.
She'll listen to you.
You're the only one
who can stop her.
I'm sorry to put this on you,
Tuan, It's the only way.
Why me?
You really think I'm the one
who's gonna save the world?
I do.
[shuffling]
[gasps]
--[TUAN] Dad!
--[NUADA grunts]
[TUAN]
Dad, are you all right?!
Elijah Vashlov:
Interpol Special Agent.
So nice to meet
you, Dr. Kirie.
I am placing you under arrest
for collusion in
the mass suicides.
Easy, Tuan! I wouldn't try
that again if I were you.
I'll have you charged with
accessory after the fact.
Cut the crap, Vashlov.
I know you're conspiring
with Miach Mihie.
[huffs]
Yes, typical Helix Inspector.
You come up with
such wild theories.
You tried to manipulate me
to get to my father,
right from the start.
I was bait.
It's why you tipped me off
about the Next-Gen
Behavior Monitoring Group.
You knew if I started
asking about them,
it'd get his attention and
he'd try to contact me.
Nice work, inspector, and
since you figured it all out,
what's my next move?
--Kidnapping my father.
--[pots clanging]
Ah, correct again.
Your sweet papa
is coming with me.
He's a key player in this game,
and he could ruin our plans.
But, if I remove him
from the equation,
then there will be nothing to
stand in the way of us getting--
I was key.
But, these days, I'm not as
important as you seem to think.
Your false modesty
insults us both.
You invented WatchMe,
you discovered Harmony,
you are the mastermind
behind it all.
And you're doing
this to get, what?
Oh, Tuan, don't tell
me you missed that.
--[TUAN grunts]
--[VASHLOV yells]
[TUAN]
Move it, Dad. Run!
[VASHLOV]
What?!
[VASHLOV huffs]
[VASHLOV grunts]
[gasps]
[TUAN grunts]
[NUADA yelps]
You're hurt!
[NUADA]
It's not bad!
[VASHLOV grunts]
[TUAN gasps]
[VASHLOV]
Heh!
[NUADA]
Tuan!
[TUAN]
Dad, no! Why did you--?
Pity. She told me not to
kill him unless I had to.
[grunts]
[coughs]
[NUADA grunts]
[TUAN whimpers]
In the end, I got
to be the father...
...I should've been.
[VASHLOV] Without him, they
won't be able to stop it.
He was the last voice of
reason anyone would listen to.
All that's left, now, is chaos.
The threats, the suicides,
just set things in motion.
They were... catalysts meant to
cause a chain reactio-- [coughs]
Tell me where to
find her, Vashlov.
[VASHLOV] For a new world to be
born, the old one must burn.
From the ashes of this
chaos, harmony will rise.
Death and destruction
are means to an end.
They are... first
steps on the path.
Miach showed us the truth,
showed us the future.
[VASHLOV gasps]
She will guide humanity
to the promised land. [gasps]
If you want to find her,
contact the Anti-Russian
Freedom Front, in Chechnya.
She is there. [grunting]
You were once her friend.
She said it was
okay to tell you.
Don't make me suffer... anymore.
It-It hurts! [gasps]
So this, this is pain.
Thanks to WatchMe, and
MediCare, I've never known...
...what it felt like. [panting]
Please... kill me...
[gunshot]
[MIACH]
WatchMe began as a noble idea,
then became law, and now
the very act of living
is controlled by
the powers-that-be.
But, "Death is power's limit,
the moment that escapes it.
Death becomes the most
secret aspect of existence,
the most private.
Society's assigned itself the
task of administering life,
but it cannot usurp
the power of death."
[TUAN]
Who is it you're quoting today?
[MIACH]
Michel Foucault.
Does that mean
there's no other way,
and death is the only
way out of this?
I lived somewhere
else when I was little.
The people in charge there
did whatever they wanted to.
It was a hell on earth.
[TUAN]
Huh?
You wouldn't believe me
if I told you what went on,
but being here is just as bad.
Bad as what?
[MIACH]
The exact opposite of here.
Things were so different there,
and yet, somehow the same.
Over there, guns kill people.
Over here, kindness does.
[TUAN]
Even before that conversation,
I suspected Miach
had a dark past.
We spent so many hours
whispering at our desks,
discussing plots
for mass murder.
I knew there was
something behind it.
Was she still carrying
around such hatred?
Had it just grown and festered
over the last thirteen years?
Was this happening because
she finally had the power
to turn her macabre
fantasies into reality?
[CROWD yelling]
[gunshot]
[OS CARA] The deadline
to kill or be killed
is the day after tomorrow.
Fear and trembling
have completely
overwhelmed the masses and
things continue to get worse.
Both the murder rate, and the
suicide rate are exploding.
Combination murder-suicides
are at an all-time high!
As of yet, no word of
violence or self-harm
from within the police
ranks or military forces,
But, I think those
reports are coming,
and I won't be
surprised when they do.
Might even be one of us Helix
Inspectors who cracks, perhaps.
I know I don't have
to worry about you.
You've already killed someone.
It was in self-defense.
[OS CARA] Then you don't have to
feel guilty about it. Lucky you.
The man murdered my father.
He claimed to be from Interpol,
but I have since confirmed
he was a double-agent,
who misused
classified intelligence
to serve his own ends.
The organization he
actually worked for is
known as the "Next-Gen Human
Behavior Monitoring Group."
They are a covert
research consortium,
founded shortly
after the Maelstrom.
From what I was able to
ascertain, their only objective
is to prevent such an apocalypse
from ever happening again.
For this purpose,
They enlisted the aid of several
prominent neuroscience experts.
My father was one of them,
and I believe Gabrielle
Étaín is another.
I suggest we bring her in for
questioning immediately.
Ms. Étaín died. Three hours ago.
[TUAN gasps]
[OS CARA] Her death was
reported as a random murder,
but if your suspicion
is correct, that could
easily be a cover story
for an assassination.
What is your current location?
Right now, en route to Chechnya.
[OS CARA]
Why?
I don't wanna say too much,
but there's a splinter
faction within the NGBMG.
They pose a serious
security risk.
I'm concerned they may
have infiltrated the W.H.O.,
as well as the Helix
Inspection Agency.
[OS CARA]
Huh?
We'll have to
continue this later.
Everyone except Inspector
Kirie, please log off, now.
[ELDER A] History seems
poised to repeat itself.
We stand on the brink
of another Maelstrom.
[ELDER B] Is this simply
the fate of humanity?
To plunge into violence
over and over?
After all we did to prevent it,
how could this be
happening again?
The Next-Gen Group.
[ELDER C] Peace.
For over half a century,
we carefully molded and crafted
a society to sustain it,
but all we truly built
was a house of cards.
[ELDER D] And now,
thanks to a few terrorists,
it's about to come
crashing down.
You know who we are.
Assembled before you are the
members of a council responsible
for protecting
humanity from itself.
[gasps] So, it was all true.
[OS CARA] Your father
was a respected member
of our science team.
His untimely death was
truly unfortunate.
[ELDER E] When the rift
within our organization
became a divide, Nuada Kirie
became a marked man.
[TUAN] But he wasn't the
only one under surveillance.
We were hoping Miach Mihie would
establish contact with you.
Or, that somewhere over the
course of this investigation,
you would find her.
You and she were friends, once.
Which explains why you gave me
five days without much fight.
[ELDER A]
Despite being in hiding,
Mihie and her accomplices have
still been able to hack into the
brain feedback mechanisms of a
limited number of individuals.
[ELDER B] They have the
means to control far fewer
people than they claim, yet
they are using their power
to incite chaos
throughout the world.
What Miach Mihie wants, or why
she is doing this, unclear.
Ours is a peaceful society,
dedicated to the
preservation of life.
Why would she want
to destroy that?
What is her end game?
You're one of the few
she's let get close to her.
We need you to learn her
true motives, Inspector Kirie,
and stop her.
[TUAN chuckles]
[OS CARA]
Find something funny?
A little.
You see, my father said
almost the exact same thing.
So, If you don't mind...
We don't have time
for this, Tuan!
The fate of the entire world
rests on your shoulders.
Then, I must be
pretty important.
We are begging you
for your help, please.
I don't give a damn
about helping you
or saving your precious world.
I will find Miach,
but my reasons for doing so
are no one else's but my own.
My father and Cian
Reikado are dead.
She killed them. There's only
one thing I care about now.
[grunts] Tuan!
[gasps]
[ELDERS] Life must be
preserved at all costs.
But, is life without
a soul, truly life?
There can be no
second Maelstrom.
The world cannot
descend into chaos again.
If mankind can no longer
repress its savage nature,
we must activate the
plan of last resort.
Give that to Miach Mihie.
She'll know who it's
from and what it means.
[UWE]
Dealing with the Anti-Russian
Freedom Front now, huh?
I brought the WarDog,
just like you asked me.
It's fully equipped.
[TUAN]
Thank you, Uwe.
[TUAN] Back when we
were young and defiant,
Miach and I agreed on something.
We wanted a world without a
society that would stifle us.
We wanted a world where
our bodies were our own,
where we had more of a
choice in our own destinies.
Why would she want
something so different now?
Why would she want a world where
we ceased to be ourselves?
[TUAN]
Coordinates.
Huh, "Alone".
[TUAN]
That goes without saying, Miach.
I've been alone ever since
the day I thought you died.
[TUAN]
Chechnya.
The place where you were born.
The place your
consciousness was born.
You once described it
as a hell on Earth.
[NUADA]
Decades ago,
in the midst of the
Russian-Chechen conflict,
an isolated ethnic minority
group was discovered.
Anthropologists had no
official records of them.
Their existence was
largely unknown.
The mountain villages where
they lived were remote.
In such a secluded environment,
and having little
contact with outsiders,
The people inbred over
many generations.
[TUAN] What are you
trying to tell me, Dad?
[NUADA] Because of
their pure bloodlines,
the members of
this minority group
all share a certain
recessive trait.
Though this trait can be found
in the general population,
the likelihood of it
occurring is extremely rare.
The trait I'm referring
to is a chromosomal anomaly,
which results in a missing gene.
The gene for the human soul.
The gene in control
of consciousness.
[TUAN]
So, these people's natural state
is the same as the Harmony
Program's side effect?
[NUADA] Yes, though
it didn't seem to inhibit
them from living their lives or
developing their own culture.
They were just extremely
adept at logical thinking.
These people evolved
without a consciousness,
because they had
no need for one.
A self-reinforcing cycle
of natural selection,
resulting in an innate
state of harmony.
[TUAN] What's this
got to do with Miach?
[NUADA] Miach came from
that ethnic minority.
When she was eight-years-old,
Russian troops raided her
village and kidnapped her.
They took her to a camp
for human trafficking,
a truly unspeakable place.
I told her she could
open up about it to me,
but she never said much.
Only that her consciousness
had awakened there.
[TUAN]
Awakened?
[NUADA] When she wasn't being
physically abused or tortured,
she remained in constant fear.
Her mind needed a way to cope.
Thus, it created a
consciousness, or...
...something like one.
A region in her cerebrum began
to emulate the functions
of the chemical reward system,
functions typically
handled by the midbrain.
[TUAN] Not a true
consciousness, a replica.
An imitation of a
consciousness,
an imitation of a soul.
[MIACH] I've decided to burn my
books, every last one of them.
I have to. They are
very precious to me.
As long as they're
here, I can't leave.
[TUAN] Does that mean
you're almost ready?
[MIACH]
Yep.
You know in China, when a
new emperor came to power,
they would burn
all the old scrolls
containing historical records,
so that they could
write a new history.
Do you know why people
began writing things down?
[TUAN]
No, why?
Because words will remain.
Long after their writers
have left this world.
[MIACH] The verses in the
Bible and the engravings
on the pyramids were
meant to be immortal.
People have always sought
to have a piece of themselves
go on forever.
[MIACH]
Would you mind doing the rest?
I just can't seem to.
[TUAN] You love these books, I
can't imagine you without them.
[MIACH]
Before the Maelstrom,
they used to burn
the dead like this.
It was called cremation.
[MIACH]
They had a custom.
They would place someone's
cherished possessions
in the coffin to be
burned with them.
[MIACH]
This is my cremation.
My books are the
source of my power,
so I'm taking them with me.
[MIACH]
Everything they've built,
That they are so certain
will last forever,
I want to destroy.
They think this perfect
moment in human history
is frozen in time.
I want to hit them where it
hurts, and shatter that moment.
[TUAN]
As long as the world turns,
society will continue
to evolve, to change.
Previously acceptable concepts
become repugnant
and are disregarded.
Who's to say we won't
outgrow the need
for consciousness as well?
Why mustn't we tamper
with free will?
Why am I fighting it?
Where is it written that
I must have a soul?
Guess I'm on my own from here.
Wait for me, I'll be back.
[TUAN]
All right, Miach, I'm here.
[MIACH]
It's been a long time, Tuan.
Thirteen years.
[MIACH] Put the gun
down, you don't need it.
We're the only ones
here, just you and me.
[MIACH]
I knew it, I knew you'd come.
And, I knew you'd come alone,
even if I hadn't asked you to.
[gasps]
[MIACH]
Over here, Tuan!
[TUAN gasps]
You grew your
hair out like mine.
It suits you.
I'm sorry about your father.
That's all you got?
You're not gonna tell me
it couldn't be helped?
Right, his death...
couldn't be helped.
Liar. There's always
another way.
My father didn't have to die.
[MIACH]
True.
[TUAN] Then, why?
The suicides, the murders.
What's the point
of this violence?
[MIACH]
We had to.
If we didn't, those geezers in
the Next-Gen Group were
never gonna push the button.
We had to make sure
they were terrified,
otherwise they wouldn't
activate the program.
This time, I'm going all
the way. No turning back.
[MIACH] We will create
a brave new world.
[TUAN]
What does that mean?
[MIACH] Tuan, I don't
know if you're aware,
but I was born
without a consciousness.
[TUAN]
I am, my father told me.
Oh.
[MIACH] The Russian army
used this building as
a base of operations for
their prostitution ring.
They would kidnap women and
girls fleeing from the horrors
of war, bring them here,
and rape them every single day.
One of the girls
they stole, was me.
I was only eight-years-old,
and I didn't have the ability
to feel pain and
fear like I do now.
There was an officer who took
a particular interest in me.
His prized possession
was an antique Tokarev.
He would make me stroke the
gun while he penetrated me.
"This is a gun," he'd say.
"This is steel. This is power."
And then he'd shove
the barrel down my throat
and force me to suck on it.
[MIACH] Over and over
and over, he did this.
[MIACH]
Until one day,
with his hard flesh
inside my body,
and his cold steel inside my
mouth, covered in my saliva,
My consciousness awakened.
[MIACH] Look at the concrete
floor beneath your feet.
It is permanently stained with
blood, sweat, tears, piss,
and semen. All mixed together.
That liquid of evil and despair,
became the amniotic fluid
from which I was reborn.
Enough, Miach. Stop it,
I've heard enough.
Please, no more.
[MIACH]
Here in Chechnya,
I learned the true evil of man.
The true cruelty of man.
But, in its own way,
Japan was worse.
They kill you with
kindness, not cruelty.
Just another type of hell.
When I was 12 years old,
a boy from my neighborhood
committed suicide
by hanging himself.
He said he hated this world.
He said he always knew
he didn't belong here.
And then, he died.
[sobs]
[gasps]
[MIACH] You remember what
that felt like, Tuan.
You were once young,
and frustrated.
Rejecting this world and what
it wanted to make you become.
[gasps] I do...
...but, I still don't understand
why you're doing this, Miach.
Is it because you hate
the world that much?
No, Tuan, I used to hate it,
but now, I love it
with all my heart.
This world's infected
with "me's" and "I's".
Souls who don't fit in,
tortured by self-consciousness.
I want to save them, I want
to give them perfect harmony!
People are dying. They take
their lives every day because
they can't cope with the world,
only those who adapt survive.
It's human nature.
And since we can't
change our nature,
we must stop being human.
And become what?
Living beings without souls?
Exactly.
Though, the thought of that
scared some of the old folks
at the Next-Gen group,
including your father.
They felt a person's
soul is their life.
So, they were all against it.
[whimpers]
I don't blame them.
What about the people
who are happy with the
world the way it is?
People like Cian.
You think she was happy?
Are you certain?
What about you, Tuan?
Are you happy? Do you want this
world to stay the way it is?
[gasps]
[MIACH] Human beings are
still animals at heart.
Beneath the surface,
we are savage and
primal creatures.
But, we can change.
We can evolve beyond the
emotion and irrationality
our brains are hardwired for.
We can stop self-regulating.
We already have the
software for it.
Humanity has outsourced
everything else that
makes us human.
So, why do we even need
a consciousness anymore?
[MIACH laughs]
With the world teetering
on the brink of destruction,
the elders will have no choice
but to activate the Harmony
Program! It'll be perfect!
Just like the world I once knew!
A world without suffering.
A world without uncertainty!
[giggling]
Miach, you never change.
It's comforting in a way.
Still smart, self-righteous,
Still trying to push
the world away.
And yet you don't
wanna be alone.
This isn't about
making a better world.
You just wanna go home.
to the life you had
before consciousness.
[MIACH sighs]
[TUAN] So, has the real reason
I came here occurred to you yet?
Or are you blinded
by what you want?
Are you envisioning utopia?
A world without individuality
or free will? Really,
is that the heaven you
think everyone would want?
Come with me. Let's go
to harmony together.
[TUAN]
Hm.
I'll do whatever you ask of me.
Wherever you lead me,
I will always follow.
Even to the gates of hell.
If you want the world
to have harmony,
then I won't do
anything to stop it.
I'll let it become
a reality. [sobs]
But, I can't allow you
to be a part of it.
I'm sorry, you have to
stay the Miach I loved!
I love you, Miach.
[gunshot]
[TUAN, CIAN giggle]
[MIACH]
Ever seen a business card?
People used to use these
to share information.
But, only with who
they wanted to.
[TUAN
It's so cute!
[CIAN]
I like it!
[MIACH]
I thought you would.
Take a look at the back.
[CIAN] What's this picture?
Did you draw it, Miach?
[MIACH] It's a symbol I
designed, our logo.
[TUAN]
Ours?
[MIACH] Yeah, It stands
for the three of us.
Cian, me, and you.
[TUAN gasps]
[ALL giggle]